{\rtf1\ansi\uc0\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fprq1\fcharset0;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green68\blue221;\red0\green0\blue255;\red170\green34\blue255;\red0\green160\blue0;\red25\green23\blue124;\red186\green33\blue33;\red64\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red187\green102\blue136;\red0\green0\blue128;\red210\green65\blue58;\red160\green160\blue0;\red136\green0\blue0;\red102\green102\blue102;\red160\green0\blue0;\red187\green187\blue187;\red136\green136\blue136;\red128\green0\blue128;\red125\green144\blue41;\red153\green153\blue153;\red188\green122\blue0;\red187\green102\blue34;\red176\green0\blue64;\red255\green0\blue0;}\f0 {\cf7\i #!/usr/bin/env python3}\par
{\cf7\i # -*- coding: utf-8 -*-}\par
{\cf7\i # The above lines tell the shell to use python as interpreter when the}\par
{\cf7\i # script is called directly, and that this file uses utf-8 encoding,}\par
{\cf7\i # because of the country specific letter in my surname.}\par
{\cf6\i """\par
Name: Program  5 "RetailItem Class"\par
Author: Martin Bo Kristensen Gr{\u248}nholdt.\par
Version: 1.0 (2017-02-19)\par
\par
Program for entering details in to a ProductionWorker class.\par
"""}\par
\par
{\cf8\b import} {\cf2\b sys}\par
\par
{\cf8\b from} {\cf2\b PyQt5.QtWidgets} {\cf8\b import} QWidget, QPushButton, QGridLayout, QApplication, \\\par
    QLabel\par
\par
\par
{\cf8\b class} {\cf2\b Prog1UI}(QWidget):\par
    {\cf6\i """\par
    Class that creates a simple dialog window.\par
    """}\par
\par
    {\cf8\b def} {\cf2 __init__}({\cf8 self}):\par
        {\cf6\i """\par
        Constructor, creates the UI.\par
        """}\par
        {\cf7\i # Call the parant constructor.}\par
        {\cf8 super}(){\cf14 .}__init__()\par
\par
        {\cf7\i # Create the label, using a member variable to be able to reference it}\par
        {\cf7\i # later.}\par
        {\cf8 self}{\cf14 .}address_label {\cf14 =} QLabel({\cf6 '}{\cf22\b \\n}{\cf22\b \\n}{\cf6 '})\par
\par
        {\cf7\i # Create the buttons}\par
        info_button {\cf14 =} QPushButton({\cf6 "}{\cf6 Show info}{\cf6 "})\par
        quit_button {\cf14 =} QPushButton({\cf6 "}{\cf6 Quit}{\cf6 "})\par
\par
        {\cf7\i # Create a grid layout}\par
        grid {\cf14 =} QGridLayout()\par
        grid{\cf14 .}setSpacing({\cf14 10})\par
\par
        {\cf7\i # Place the address labe in the top row of the grid and make it span 5}\par
        {\cf7\i # columns.}\par
        grid{\cf14 .}addWidget({\cf8 self}{\cf14 .}address_label, {\cf14 0}, {\cf14 0}, {\cf14 1}, {\cf14 5})\par
\par
        {\cf7\i # Place the buttons at the second row, with some cells between them for}\par
        {\cf7\i # spacing.}\par
        grid{\cf14 .}addWidget(info_button, {\cf14 1}, {\cf14 1})\par
        grid{\cf14 .}addWidget(quit_button, {\cf14 1}, {\cf14 3})\par
\par
        {\cf7\i # Connect event handler for button clicks}\par
        info_button{\cf14 .}clicked{\cf14 .}connect({\cf8 self}{\cf14 .}infoClicked)\par
        {\cf7\i # Close the window on clicking "Quit"}\par
        quit_button{\cf14 .}clicked{\cf14 .}connect({\cf8 self}{\cf14 .}close)\par
\par
        {\cf7\i # Set the layout of this widget}\par
        {\cf8 self}{\cf14 .}setLayout(grid)\par
\par
        {\cf7\i # Set title}\par
        {\cf8 self}{\cf14 .}setWindowTitle({\cf6 '}{\cf6 Program 1 QT5 GUI}{\cf6 '})\par
        {\cf7\i # Show window}\par
        {\cf8 self}{\cf14 .}show()\par
\par
    {\cf8\b def} {\cf2 infoClicked}({\cf8 self}):\par
        {\cf6\i """\par
        Handler that is called when the info button is clicked\par
        """}\par
        {\cf7\i # Set the text of the label}\par
        {\cf8 self}{\cf14 .}address_label{\cf14 .}setText({\cf6 '}{\cf6 Steven Marcus}{\cf22\b \\n}{\cf6 '} {\cf14 +}\par
                                   {\cf6 '}{\cf6 274 Baily Drive}{\cf22\b \\n}{\cf6 '} {\cf14 +}\par
                                   {\cf6 '}{\cf6 Waynesville, NC 27999}{\cf6 '})\par
\par
\par
{\cf8\b def} {\cf2 main}():\par
    {\cf6\i """\par
    Main program\par
    """}\par
    {\cf7\i # Instantiate the QT application class}\par
    app {\cf14 =} QApplication(sys{\cf14 .}argv)\par
    {\cf7\i # Create out window}\par
    ui {\cf14 =} Prog1UI()\par
    {\cf7\i # Exit when done.}\par
    sys{\cf14 .}exit(app{\cf14 .}exec_())\par
\par
\par
{\cf7\i # Run this when invoked directly}\par
{\cf8\b if} __name__ {\cf14 ==} {\cf6 '}{\cf6 __main__}{\cf6 '}:\par
    main()\par
}