{\rtf1\ansi\uc0\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fprq1\fcharset0;}}{\colortbl;\red136\green136\blue136;\red186\green33\blue33;\red0\green68\blue221;\red102\green102\blue102;\red64\green128\blue128;\red160\green160\blue0;\red25\green23\blue124;\red0\green128\blue0;\red187\green102\blue136;\red187\green102\blue34;\red136\green0\blue0;\red170\green34\blue255;\red153\green153\blue153;\red0\green160\blue0;\red160\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red176\green0\blue64;\red0\green0\blue255;\red187\green187\blue187;\red188\green122\blue0;\red0\green0\blue128;\red125\green144\blue41;\red210\green65\blue58;}\f0 {\cf5\i #!/usr/bin/env python}\par
{\cf5\i # -*- coding: utf-8 -*-}\par
{\cf5\i # The above lines tell the shell to use python as interpreter when the}\par
{\cf5\i # script is called directly, and that this file uses utf-8 encoding,}\par
{\cf5\i # because of the country specific letter in my surname.}\par
{\cf2\i '''\par
Name: Program 10\par
Author: Martin Bo Kristensen Gr{\u248}nholdt.\par
Version: 1.0 (6/11-2016)\par
\par
Stock Transaction Program.\par
'''}\par
\par
\par
{\cf8\b def} {\cf19 main}():\par
    {\cf2\i '''\par
    Program main entry point.\par
    '''}\par
    {\cf5\i # This is the constants for the transaction.}\par
    shares {\cf4 =} {\cf4 1000.0}\par
    commission {\cf4 =} {\cf4 0.02}\par
    bought_price_per_share {\cf4 =} {\cf4 32.87}\par
    sold_price_per_share {\cf4 =} {\cf4 33.92}\par
\par
    {\cf5\i # Calculate commissions.}\par
    bought_commission {\cf4 =} bought_price_per_share {\cf4 *} shares {\cf4 *} commission\par
    sold_commission {\cf4 =} sold_price_per_share {\cf4 *} shares {\cf4 *} commission\par
    {\cf5\i # Get the amount paid for the purchase/sale.}\par
    total_price_bought {\cf4 =} bought_commission {\cf4 +} bought_price_per_share {\cf4 *} shares\par
    total_price_sold {\cf4 =} sold_price_per_share {\cf4 *} shares {\cf4 -} sold_commission\par
\par
    {\cf5\i ###########################################################################}\par
    {\cf5\i # Output:}\par
    {\cf5\i # * The amount of money Joe paid for the stock.}\par
    {\cf5\i # * The amount of commission Joe paid his broker when he bought the stock.}\par
    {\cf5\i # * The amount that Joe sold the stock for.}\par
    {\cf5\i # * The amount of commission Joe paid his broker when he sold the stock.}\par
    {\cf5\i # * Display the amount of money that Joe had left when he sold the stock}\par
    {\cf5\i #   and paid his broker (both times). If this amount is positive, then Joe}\par
    {\cf5\i #   made a profit. If the amount is negative, then Joe lost money.}\par
    {\cf5\i #}\par
    {\cf5\i # Use new style Python 3 format strings.}\par
    {\cf5\i # \{:12.2f\} means align for a total of 12 digits with 2 digits after the}\par
    {\cf5\i # decimal point.}\par
    {\cf8\b print}({\cf2 '}{\cf10\b \\n}{\cf2 Total stock price when bought:}{\cf10\b \\t}{\cf10\b \\t}{\cf2 '},\par
          {\cf2 '}{\cf2 \{:12.2f\}}{\cf2 '}{\cf4 .}format(total_price_bought))\par
    {\cf8\b print}({\cf2 '}{\cf2 Commission paid when bought:}{\cf10\b \\t}{\cf10\b \\t}{\cf2 '},\par
          {\cf2 '}{\cf2 \{:12.2f\}}{\cf2 '}{\cf4 .}format(bought_commission))\par
    {\cf8\b print}({\cf2 '}{\cf2 Total stock price when sold:}{\cf10\b \\t}{\cf10\b \\t}{\cf2 '},\par
          {\cf2 '}{\cf2 \{:12.2f\}}{\cf2 '}{\cf4 .}format(total_price_sold))\par
    {\cf8\b print}({\cf2 '}{\cf2 Commission paid when sold:}{\cf10\b \\t}{\cf10\b \\t}{\cf10\b \\t}{\cf2 '},\par
          {\cf2 '}{\cf2 \{:12.2f\}}{\cf2 '}{\cf4 .}format(sold_commission))\par
    {\cf8\b print}({\cf2 '}{\cf2 Total win/loss of the transaction:}{\cf10\b \\t}{\cf2 '},\par
          {\cf2 '}{\cf2 \{:12.2f\}}{\cf2 '}{\cf4 .}format(total_price_sold {\cf4 -} total_price_bought))\par
\par
\par
{\cf5\i # Run this when invoked directly}\par
{\cf8\b if} __name__ {\cf4 ==} {\cf2 '}{\cf2 __main__}{\cf2 '}:\par
    main()\par
}