{\rtf1\ansi\uc0\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fprq1\fcharset0;}}{\colortbl;\red136\green136\blue136;\red186\green33\blue33;\red0\green68\blue221;\red102\green102\blue102;\red64\green128\blue128;\red160\green160\blue0;\red25\green23\blue124;\red0\green128\blue0;\red187\green102\blue136;\red187\green102\blue34;\red136\green0\blue0;\red170\green34\blue255;\red153\green153\blue153;\red0\green160\blue0;\red160\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red176\green0\blue64;\red0\green0\blue255;\red187\green187\blue187;\red188\green122\blue0;\red0\green0\blue128;\red125\green144\blue41;\red210\green65\blue58;}\f0 {\cf5\i # -*- coding: utf-8 -*-}\par
{\cf2\i """\par
Name: SQLite example of creating tables and inserting rows.\par
Author: Martin Bo Kristensen Gr{\u248}nholdt.\par
Version: 1.0 (2017-04-22)\par
"""}\par
\par
{\cf5\i # Import the SQLite module}\par
{\cf8\b import} {\cf19\b sqlite3}\par
\par
{\cf5\i # Start an exception block to catch errors.}\par
{\cf8\b try}:\par
    {\cf5\i # Create a connection to a database with the file name 'example.db'. The file}\par
    {\cf5\i # is created if missing.}\par
    conn {\cf4 =} sqlite3{\cf4 .}connect({\cf2 '}{\cf2 example.db}{\cf2 '})\par
\par
    {\cf5\i # Get a Cursor object to used to perfom SQL commands on the database.}\par
    cursor {\cf4 =} conn{\cf4 .}cursor()\par
\par
    {\cf5\i # Create the customerTable table.}\par
    {\cf8\b print}({\cf2 '}{\cf2 Creating customerTable...}{\cf2 '}, end{\cf4 =}{\cf2 '}{\cf2 '})\par
    cursor{\cf4 .}execute(\par
        {\cf2\i """\par
        CREATE TABLE customerTable(\par
          idCust INT NOT NULL UNIQUE,\par
          name VARCHAR(100),\par
          email VARCHAR(50),\par
          address VARCHAR(50),\par
          city VARCHAR(30),\par
          PRIMARY KEY (idCust)\par
        )\par
        """}\par
    )\par
\par
    {\cf5\i # Insert the data in to the table.}\par
    cursor{\cf4 .}execute(\par
        {\cf2\i """\par
        INSERT INTO customerTable VALUES(\par
        1,\par
        'Per',\par
        'pda@eal.dk',\par
        'Mystreet1',\par
        'Odense'\par
        )\par
        """}\par
    )\par
    {\cf5\i # Can we make the street name Opampstreet to fit the number? ;-)}\par
    cursor{\cf4 .}execute(\par
        {\cf2\i """\par
        INSERT INTO customerTable VALUES(\par
        2,\par
        'Artur',\par
        'at@hotmail.com',\par
        'Allstreet 741',\par
        'Vilnius'\par
        )\par
        """}\par
    )\par
    cursor{\cf4 .}execute(\par
        {\cf2\i """\par
        INSERT INTO customerTable VALUES(\par
        3,\par
        'Alice',\par
        'ab@gmail.com',\par
        'Topstreet 56',\par
        'London'\par
        )\par
        """}\par
    )\par
    {\cf5\i # Commit the data to the database.}\par
    conn{\cf4 .}commit()\par
    {\cf8\b print}({\cf2 '}{\cf2 done}{\cf2 '})\par
\par
    {\cf8\b print}({\cf2 '}{\cf10\b \\n}{\cf2 Current entries in the database:}{\cf2 '})\par
    {\cf5\i # Select all rows in the customerTable table.}\par
    cursor{\cf4 .}execute({\cf2 '}{\cf2 SELECT * FROM customerTable}{\cf2 '})\par
    {\cf5\i # A counter to make things look nice in the output.}\par
    row_nr {\cf4 =} {\cf4 0}\par
    {\cf5\i # Run trhough all rows.}\par
    {\cf8\b for} row {\cf12\b in} cursor{\cf4 .}fetchall():\par
        {\cf5\i # Next row number.}\par
        row_nr {\cf4 +}{\cf4 =} {\cf4 1}\par
        {\cf5\i # Print row number.}\par
        {\cf8\b print}({\cf2 '}{\cf2 Row \{\}: }{\cf2 '}{\cf4 .}format(row_nr), end{\cf4 =}{\cf2 '}{\cf2 '})\par
        {\cf5\i # Run through all fields in the row.}\par
        {\cf8\b for} field {\cf12\b in} row:\par
            {\cf5\i # Print the fields.}\par
            {\cf8\b print}({\cf2 '}{\cf2 \{\}, }{\cf2 '}{\cf4 .}format(field), end{\cf4 =}{\cf2 '}{\cf2 '})\par
        {\cf5\i # Next line.}\par
        {\cf8\b print}()\par
\par
{\cf8\b except} sqlite3{\cf4 .}Error {\cf8\b as} sql_error:\par
    {\cf8\b print}({\cf2 '}{\cf10\b \\n}{\cf10\b \\n}{\cf2 An database error occurred!}{\cf2 '})\par
    {\cf8\b print}({\cf2 '}{\cf2 Error is: }{\cf2 '} {\cf4 +} {\cf8 str}(sql_error))\par
}