{\rtf1\ansi\uc0\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fprq1\fcharset0;}}{\colortbl;\red136\green136\blue136;\red186\green33\blue33;\red0\green68\blue221;\red102\green102\blue102;\red64\green128\blue128;\red160\green160\blue0;\red25\green23\blue124;\red0\green128\blue0;\red187\green102\blue136;\red187\green102\blue34;\red136\green0\blue0;\red170\green34\blue255;\red153\green153\blue153;\red0\green160\blue0;\red160\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red176\green0\blue64;\red0\green0\blue255;\red187\green187\blue187;\red188\green122\blue0;\red0\green0\blue128;\red125\green144\blue41;\red210\green65\blue58;}\f0 {\cf5\i #!/usr/bin/env python3}\par
{\cf5\i # -*- coding: utf-8 -*-}\par
{\cf5\i # The above lines tell the shell to use python as interpreter when the}\par
{\cf5\i # script is called directly, and that this file uses utf-8 encoding,}\par
{\cf5\i # because of the country specific letter in my surname.}\par
{\cf2\i '''\par
Name: Program 2 "Math Quiz"\par
Author: Martin Bo Kristensen Gr{\u248}nholdt.\par
Version: 1.0 (2017-01-10)\par
\par
Calculate the sum of numbers input by the user.\par
'''}\par
{\cf8\b import} {\cf19\b random}\par
\par
\par
{\cf8\b def} {\cf19 print_puzzle}():\par
    {\cf2\i """\par
    Print an addition puzzle.\par
\par
    :return: The result of the addition.\par
    """}\par
    {\cf5\i # Generate the numbers to add, limit the max value to 1000}\par
    {\cf5\i # Convert them to string and truncate them, to avoid later rounding errors.}\par
    firstNumber {\cf4 =} {\cf2 '}{\cf2 \{:7.2f\}}{\cf2 '}{\cf4 .}format(random{\cf4 .}randrange({\cf4 1}, {\cf4 1000}))\par
    secondNumber {\cf4 =} {\cf2 '}{\cf2 \{:7.2f\}}{\cf2 '}{\cf4 .}format(random{\cf4 .}randrange({\cf4 1}, {\cf4 1000}))\par
\par
    {\cf5\i # Output the puzzle.}\par
    {\cf8\b print}({\cf2 '}{\cf2    }{\cf2 '} {\cf4 +} firstNumber)\par
    {\cf8\b print}({\cf2 '}{\cf2  + }{\cf2 '} {\cf4 +} secondNumber)\par
    {\cf8\b print}({\cf2 '}{\cf2 -}{\cf2 '} {\cf4 *} {\cf4 11})\par
\par
    {\cf8\b return} {\cf8 float}(firstNumber) {\cf4 +} {\cf8 float}(secondNumber)\par
\par
\par
{\cf8\b def} {\cf19 get_user_result}():\par
    {\cf2\i """\par
    Get the result from the user.\par
\par
    :return: User result.\par
    """}\par
    {\cf8\b try}:\par
        {\cf8\b return} ({\cf8 float}({\cf8 input}({\cf2 '}{\cf10\b \\n}{\cf2 Input you answer: }{\cf2 '})))\par
    {\cf8\b except} {\cf24\b ValueError}:\par
        {\cf5\i # Complain when something unexpected was entered.}\par
        {\cf8\b print}({\cf2 '}{\cf10\b \\n}{\cf2 Please use only numbers.}{\cf2 '})\par
        {\cf8 exit}({\cf4 1})\par
\par
\par
{\cf8\b def} {\cf19 main}():\par
    {\cf2\i '''\par
    Program main entry point.\par
    '''}\par
    {\cf8\b print}({\cf2 '}{\cf2 Do the following math puzzle: }{\cf10\b \\n}{\cf10\b \\n}{\cf2 '})\par
    result {\cf4 =} print_puzzle()\par
    userResult {\cf4 =} get_user_result()\par
    {\cf8\b print}()\par
\par
    {\cf8\b if} (result {\cf4 !=} userResult):\par
        {\cf8\b print}({\cf2 '}{\cf2 The correct answer is \{:.2f\}}{\cf2 '}{\cf4 .}format(result))\par
    {\cf8\b else}:\par
        {\cf8\b print}({\cf2 '}{\cf2 Congratulations, your answer was correct!}{\cf2 '})\par
\par
\par
{\cf5\i # Run this when invoked directly}\par
{\cf8\b if} __name__ {\cf4 ==} {\cf2 '}{\cf2 __main__}{\cf2 '}:\par
    main()\par
}