{\rtf1\ansi\uc0\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fprq1\fcharset0;}}{\colortbl;\red136\green136\blue136;\red186\green33\blue33;\red0\green68\blue221;\red102\green102\blue102;\red64\green128\blue128;\red160\green160\blue0;\red25\green23\blue124;\red0\green128\blue0;\red187\green102\blue136;\red187\green102\blue34;\red136\green0\blue0;\red170\green34\blue255;\red153\green153\blue153;\red0\green160\blue0;\red160\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red176\green0\blue64;\red0\green0\blue255;\red187\green187\blue187;\red188\green122\blue0;\red0\green0\blue128;\red125\green144\blue41;\red210\green65\blue58;}\f0 {\cf5\i #!/usr/bin/env python3}\par
{\cf5\i # -*- coding: utf-8 -*-}\par
{\cf5\i # The above lines tell the shell to use python as interpreter when the}\par
{\cf5\i # script is called directly, and that this file uses utf-8 encoding,}\par
{\cf5\i # because of the country specific letter in my surname.}\par
{\cf2\i """\par
Name: Program 12 "Rock, Paper, Scissors Game"\par
Author: Martin Bo Kristensen Gr{\u248}nholdt.\par
Version: 1.0 (2017-01-10)\par
\par
Rock, Paper, Scissors Game against the awesome AI that is the "random" number\par
generator.\par
"""}\par
{\cf8\b import} {\cf19\b random}\par
\par
\par
{\cf8\b def} {\cf19 computerChoice}():\par
    {\cf2\i """\par
    Get the computer's choice.\par
\par
    :return: Rock = 1, Paper = 2, Scissors = 3\par
    """}\par
    {\cf8\b return} (random{\cf4 .}randrange({\cf4 1}, {\cf4 3}))\par
\par
\par
{\cf8\b def} {\cf19 userChoice}():\par
    {\cf2\i """\par
    Get the user's choice.\par
\par
    :return: A string with the users choice\par
    """}\par
    {\cf5\i # Get the users choice and convert to lower case, to catch some more}\par
    {\cf5\i # permutations.}\par
    {\cf8\b return} ({\cf8 input}({\cf2 '}{\cf2 Input a choice of rock, paper, scissors: }{\cf2 '}){\cf4 .}lower())\par
\par
{\cf8\b def} {\cf19 getWinner}(computer, user):\par
    {\cf2\i """\par
    Find a winner.\par
\par
    :param computer: The computers object choice.\par
    :param user: The users object choice.\par
    :return: Computer og You or None depending on who wins.\par
    """}\par
    {\cf5\i #No one wins by default.}\par
    winner {\cf4 =} {\cf8 None}\par
\par
    {\cf5\i # Computer chooses rock, user scissors, computer wins}\par
    {\cf8\b if} computer {\cf4 ==} {\cf4 1} {\cf12\b and} user {\cf4 ==} {\cf4 3}:\par
        winner {\cf4 =} {\cf2 '}{\cf2 Computer}{\cf2 '}\par
    {\cf5\i # Computer chooses scissors, user paper, computer wins}\par
    {\cf8\b if} computer {\cf4 ==} {\cf4 3} {\cf12\b and} user {\cf4 ==} {\cf4 2}:\par
        winner {\cf4 =} {\cf2 '}{\cf2 Computer}{\cf2 '}\par
    {\cf5\i # Computer chooses paper, user rock, computer wins}\par
    {\cf8\b if} computer {\cf4 ==} {\cf4 2} {\cf12\b and} user {\cf4 ==} {\cf4 1}:\par
        winner {\cf4 =} {\cf2 '}{\cf2 Computer}{\cf2 '}\par
\par
    {\cf5\i # User chooses rock, computer scissors, computer wins}\par
    {\cf8\b if} user {\cf4 ==} {\cf4 1} {\cf12\b and} computer {\cf4 ==} {\cf4 3}:\par
        winner {\cf4 =} {\cf2 '}{\cf2 Computer}{\cf2 '}\par
    {\cf5\i # User chooses scissors, computer paper, computer wins}\par
    {\cf8\b if} user {\cf4 ==} {\cf4 3} {\cf12\b and} computer {\cf4 ==} {\cf4 2}:\par
        winner {\cf4 =} {\cf2 '}{\cf2 Computer}{\cf2 '}\par
    {\cf5\i # User chooses paper, computer rock, computer wins}\par
    {\cf8\b if} user {\cf4 ==} {\cf4 2} {\cf12\b and} computer {\cf4 ==} {\cf4 1}:\par
        winner {\cf4 =} {\cf2 '}{\cf2 Computer}{\cf2 '}\par
\par
    {\cf8\b return} winner\par
\par
\par
{\cf8\b def} {\cf19 main}():\par
    {\cf2\i '''\par
    Program main entry point.\par
    '''}\par
    {\cf5\i # Crate a lookup list for the object types.}\par
    objectNumbers {\cf4 =} \{{\cf4 1}: {\cf2 '}{\cf2 rock}{\cf2 '}, {\cf4 2}: {\cf2 '}{\cf2 paper}{\cf2 '}, {\cf4 3}: {\cf2 '}{\cf2 scissors}{\cf2 '}\}\par
    objectStrings {\cf4 =} \{{\cf2 '}{\cf2 rock}{\cf2 '}: {\cf4 1}, {\cf2 '}{\cf2 paper}{\cf2 '}: {\cf4 2}, {\cf2 '}{\cf2 scissors}{\cf2 '}: {\cf4 3}\}\par
\par
    winner {\cf4 =} {\cf8 None}\par
    {\cf5\i # Repeat until someone wins.}\par
    {\cf8\b while} winner {\cf12\b is} {\cf8 None}:\par
        {\cf5\i # Get computers choice.}\par
        computerObject {\cf4 =} computerChoice()\par
        {\cf5\i # Get users choice and convert it into a number.}\par
        {\cf8\b try}:\par
            userObject {\cf4 =} objectStrings[userChoice()]\par
        {\cf8\b except} {\cf24\b KeyError}:\par
            {\cf5\i # Complain when something unexpected was entered.}\par
            {\cf8\b print}({\cf2 '}{\cf10\b \\n}{\cf2 Please input either rock, paper, or scissors.}{\cf2 '})\par
            {\cf8 exit}({\cf4 1})\par
\par
        {\cf8\b print}({\cf2 "}{\cf2 The computer}{\cf2 '}{\cf2 s choice is: \{\}}{\cf2 "}{\cf4 .}format(objectNumbers[computerChoice()]))\par
\par
        winner {\cf4 =} getWinner(computerObject, userObject)\par
        {\cf8\b if} winner {\cf12\b is} {\cf8 None}:\par
            {\cf8\b print}({\cf2 '}{\cf10\b \\n}{\cf2 No winner, have another go...}{\cf10\b \\n}{\cf2 '})\par
\par
    {\cf8\b print}({\cf2 '}{\cf10\b \\n}{\cf2 The winner is: \{\}!}{\cf2 '}{\cf4 .}format(winner))\par
\par
\par
\par
{\cf5\i # Run this when invoked directly}\par
{\cf8\b if} __name__ {\cf4 ==} {\cf2 '}{\cf2 __main__}{\cf2 '}:\par
    main()\par
}