{\rtf1\ansi\uc0\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fprq1\fcharset0;}}{\colortbl;\red136\green136\blue136;\red186\green33\blue33;\red0\green68\blue221;\red102\green102\blue102;\red64\green128\blue128;\red160\green160\blue0;\red25\green23\blue124;\red0\green128\blue0;\red187\green102\blue136;\red187\green102\blue34;\red136\green0\blue0;\red170\green34\blue255;\red153\green153\blue153;\red0\green160\blue0;\red160\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red176\green0\blue64;\red0\green0\blue255;\red187\green187\blue187;\red188\green122\blue0;\red0\green0\blue128;\red125\green144\blue41;\red210\green65\blue58;}\f0 {\cf5\i #!/usr/bin/env python}\par
{\cf5\i # -*- coding: utf-8 -*-}\par
{\cf5\i # The above lines tell the shell to use python as interpreter when the}\par
{\cf5\i # script is called directly, and that this file uses utf-8 encoding,}\par
{\cf5\i # because of the country specific letter in my surname.}\par
{\cf2\i """\par
Name: Program 5\par
Author: Martin Bo Kristensen Gr{\u248}nholdt.\par
Version: 1.0 (2016-12-04)\par
\par
Calculate the avarage rainfall over a period of years.\par
"""}\par
\par
\par
{\cf8\b def} {\cf19 get_rain_year}():\par
    {\cf2\i '''\par
    Get the monthly rainfall for a year.\par
\par
    :return: Array of rainfall each month\par
    '''}\par
    {\cf5\i # Create list for the values.}\par
    months {\cf4 =} {\cf8 list}()\par
    {\cf5\i # Loop through month.}\par
    {\cf8\b for} month {\cf12\b in} {\cf8 range}({\cf4 1}, {\cf4 13}):\par
        {\cf8\b print}({\cf2 '}{\cf2 Input amount of rain for month number \{\} }{\cf2 '}{\cf4 .}format(month) {\cf4 +}\par
              {\cf2 '}{\cf2 ( in inches): }{\cf2 '}, end{\cf4 =}{\cf2 '}{\cf2 '})\par
        {\cf5\i # Add the amount to the list}\par
        months{\cf4 .}append({\cf8 float}({\cf8 input}()))\par
    {\cf5\i # Return the list}\par
    {\cf8\b return} months\par
\par
\par
{\cf8\b def} {\cf19 main}():\par
    {\cf2\i '''\par
    Program main entry point.\par
    '''}\par
    {\cf5\i # Number of years.}\par
    years {\cf4 =} {\cf4 0}\par
    {\cf5\i # List of list of values for all months of all years.}\par
    stats {\cf4 =} {\cf8 list}()\par
    {\cf8\b try}:\par
        {\cf5\i # Get the number of years from the user.}\par
        years {\cf4 =} {\cf8 int}({\cf8 input}({\cf2 '}{\cf2 Input the number of years of rain statistics}{\cf2 '} {\cf4 +}\par
                          {\cf2 '}{\cf2  to use: }{\cf2 '}))\par
\par
        {\cf5\i # Get values for all months by using looping through the years}\par
        {\cf8\b for} year {\cf12\b in} {\cf8 range}({\cf4 1}, years {\cf4 +} {\cf4 1}):\par
            {\cf8\b print}({\cf2 '}{\cf10\b \\n}{\cf2 Values for year \{\}}{\cf2 '}{\cf4 .}format(year))\par
            stats{\cf4 .}append(get_rain_year())\par
    {\cf8\b except} {\cf24\b ValueError}:\par
        {\cf5\i # Complain when something unexpected was entered.}\par
        {\cf8\b print}({\cf2 '}{\cf10\b \\n}{\cf2 Please use only numbers.}{\cf2 '})\par
        {\cf8 exit}({\cf4 1})\par
\par
    {\cf5\i # Print final statistics.}\par
    total_months {\cf4 =} {\cf8 len}(stats) {\cf4 *} {\cf4 12}\par
    {\cf8\b print}({\cf2 '}{\cf10\b \\n}{\cf2 Number of month in the period: \{\}}{\cf2 '}{\cf4 .}format(total_months))\par
\par
    {\cf5\i #Calculate total rainfall}\par
    total_rainfall {\cf4 =} {\cf4 0}\par
    {\cf8\b for} year {\cf12\b in} {\cf8 range}({\cf4 0}, years):\par
        {\cf8\b for} month {\cf12\b in} {\cf8 range}({\cf4 0}, {\cf4 12}):\par
            total_rainfall {\cf4 +}{\cf4 =} stats[year][month]\par
\par
    {\cf8\b print}({\cf2 '}{\cf2 Total rainfall for the period (in inches): }{\cf2 '} {\cf4 +}\par
          {\cf2 '}{\cf2 \{:0.2f\}}{\cf2 '}{\cf4 .}format(total_rainfall))\par
    {\cf8\b print}({\cf2 '}{\cf2 Avarage rainfall for the period (in inches): }{\cf2 '} {\cf4 +}\par
          {\cf2 '}{\cf2 \{:0.2f\}}{\cf2 '}{\cf4 .}format(total_rainfall{\cf4 /}total_months))\par
\par
{\cf5\i # Run this when invoked directly}\par
{\cf8\b if} __name__ {\cf4 ==} {\cf2 '}{\cf2 __main__}{\cf2 '}:\par
    main()\par
}