{\rtf1\ansi\uc0\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fprq1\fcharset0;}}{\colortbl;\red136\green136\blue136;\red186\green33\blue33;\red0\green68\blue221;\red102\green102\blue102;\red64\green128\blue128;\red160\green160\blue0;\red25\green23\blue124;\red0\green128\blue0;\red187\green102\blue136;\red187\green102\blue34;\red136\green0\blue0;\red170\green34\blue255;\red153\green153\blue153;\red0\green160\blue0;\red160\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red176\green0\blue64;\red0\green0\blue255;\red187\green187\blue187;\red188\green122\blue0;\red0\green0\blue128;\red125\green144\blue41;\red210\green65\blue58;}\f0 {\cf5\i #!/usr/bin/env python}\par
{\cf5\i # -*- coding: utf-8 -*-}\par
{\cf5\i # The above lines tell the shell to use python as interpreter when the}\par
{\cf5\i # script is called directly, and that this file uses utf-8 encoding,}\par
{\cf5\i # because of the country specific letter in my surname.}\par
{\cf2\i """\par
Name: Program 5\par
Author: Martin Bo Kristensen Gr{\u248}nholdt.\par
Version: 1.0 (13/11-2016)\par
\par
Calculate the assessment value and property tax from the actual value of a piece\par
of property\par
"""}\par
{\cf8\b def} {\cf19 assessment_value}(value {\cf4 =} {\cf4 0}):\par
    {\cf2\i """\par
    Calculate the assessment value (60%) from the actual value.\par
\par
    :param value: The actual value of the property.\par
    :return: The assessment value.\par
    """}\par
    {\cf5\i # Return the assessment value.}\par
    {\cf8\b return}(value {\cf4 *} {\cf4 0.6})\par
\par
\par
{\cf8\b def} {\cf19 property_tax} (value{\cf4 =}{\cf4 0}):\par
    {\cf2\i """\par
    Calculate the property tax (0.64%) from the actual value.\par
\par
    :param value: The actual value of the property.\par
    :return: The assessment value.\par
    """}\par
    {\cf5\i # Rerturn the property tax value.}\par
    {\cf8\b return}(assessment_value(value) {\cf4 *} {\cf4 0.0064})\par
\par
\par
{\cf8\b def} {\cf19 main}():\par
    {\cf2\i """\par
    Program main entry point.\par
    """}\par
    {\cf5\i # Get the value of the property from the user.}\par
    {\cf8\b try}:\par
        value {\cf4 =} {\cf8 float}({\cf8 input}({\cf2 '}{\cf2 Enter the value of the property: }{\cf2 '}))\par
    {\cf8\b except} {\cf24\b ValueError}:\par
        {\cf5\i # Complain when something unexpected was entered.}\par
        {\cf8\b print}({\cf2 '}{\cf10\b \\n}{\cf2 Please use only numbers.}{\cf2 '})\par
        {\cf8 exit}({\cf4 1})\par
\par
    {\cf8\b print}({\cf2 '}{\cf10\b \\n}{\cf2 Property value:}{\cf10\b \\t}{\cf10\b \\t}{\cf2 \{:12.2f\}}{\cf2 '}{\cf4 .}format(value))\par
    {\cf8\b print}({\cf2 '}{\cf2 Assessment value:}{\cf10\b \\t}{\cf2 \{:12.2f\}}{\cf2 '}{\cf4 .}format(assessment_value(value)))\par
    {\cf8\b print}({\cf2 '}{\cf2 Property tax:}{\cf10\b \\t}{\cf10\b \\t}{\cf2 \{:12.2f\}}{\cf2 '}{\cf4 .}format(property_tax(value)))\par
\par
\par
{\cf5\i # Run this when invoked directly}\par
{\cf8\b if} __name__ {\cf4 ==} {\cf2 '}{\cf2 __main__}{\cf2 '}:\par
    main()\par
}